---
cover: /articles/desktop-application-development.jpg
date: 2023-08-20
---

# Desktop Application Development in 2023

People give quite a bit of flack when it comes to building desktop applications in anything that isn't native. There are so many solutions to building Desktop applications, whether it's purely native, web view based or some native-like alternative. I've really been thinking about this when building Nyra and have considered all options that are laid out for me. Here's what I've learned.

First off, do not listen to everything on the internet. Everyone tells you that you should just build a native app and not use something web based. While I think this is an absolutely valid point; I also believe it's misleading for several reasons. If you're a single person building an application, more than likely people are going to end up building in a WebView based tool. If it's a huge company the size of Adobe or a relatively small sized startup, maybe there is a 100% valid reason for only building natively. Maybe you need the most control and high performance. Or need to utilize dependencies that aren't really suited for anything on the web. Sure, we have WebGL and WASM, but that still doesn't negate the fact that native apps are more powerful.

I've spent countless hours learning Flutter, which is an amazing tool and I love building trees of Flutter Widgets. I've spent countless years working with web technology (HTML, JS, SCSS, etc..) and it's something that is easy for me to get going and start building immediately.

Originally I thought I might use Flutter, but I was deterred due to some jank issues that I've read through in the documentation & issues on GitHub. Electron was a close second, but I know there are quite a bit of performance issues and some that I have experienced in the past. I'm not exactly sure if it's the performance issues or what, but generally I can tell if an application is using Electron.

Recently I came across Tauri, which is relatively new (yeah, I know) and I've been playing around with it while working on a soon-to-be production build of an application. Learning as I go kind of thing. One issue that stood out to me and I'm currently still worried about is the variation in WebViews across different platforms. Since Tauri doesn't come with a packaged version of a browser it uses the system's native webview, which has some benefits and also pitfalls. The primary pitfall is that you have WebView2 on Windows, WKWebView on macOS, and who knows what on Linux platforms. All of these webviews have varying functionality and different APIs. So in working with tauri you have to work with all of these different APIs. The amazing benefit of tauri is that you have reduced bundle sizes and increased performance since you don't have a ton of overhead from whatever browser you picked with Electron. As with anything, Electron is absolutely not a bad tool! It powers one of the most popular IDEs used by developers.

Tauri is attractive to me because it seems to have a different mission than Electron.

The point is: Use what you want to use, but remember the humans down the line that will be working in your application. Remember the user and what you want their experience to be.

#### References & Attributions

Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@alesnesetril?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Ales Nesetril</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/Im7lZjxeLhg?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
