---
cover: /articles/thoughts-on-consciousness.jpg
date: 2023-09-28
layout: article
---
# Thoughts on Consciousness

What if?

This question alone creates a never ending cycle of additional questions within my mind. In this world there are those that seek truth and those that do not. Quite honestly, I am of those that seeks truth. Whether it truly matters is another question. However, while I'm here, I'd rather use my brain to think about the things that populate my mind. The deeper into the rabbit hole you go, the more questions arise. What if the universe continuously creates more questions to prevent us from knowing everything? What if we created our own universes over time? What if there is no universe? What if simply just exist on a subatomic scale inside someone else's brain? It's really absurd if you think about it and that's one of the reasons I love science as it allows us to find truth.

## A Theory

One question that I've been thinking about lately has to do with the theory of the Multiverse:

What if at the very last few nanoseconds of our death we create our own universe in our minds? What if our soul/consciousness transcends into the Multiverse, essentially creating an entirely new universe comprised of our past self without any memories from the previous universe? Ultimately this would make sense if there were some amount of brain activity shortly before death. I believe that I've seen some research on this topic in the past.

#### End

I'll come back to this in the near future, but there is quite a bit more I have to say about this idea.

## References & Attributions

Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@davidclode?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">David Clode</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/75CxJTYeUYs?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
  