---
layout: default
head.title: G33K
description: Musings, Creative Work, Portfolio, and collection of my shared knowledge.
title: Welcome
---

::hero
---
image: '/NASA-01.jpg'
---
#title
Hi, I'm Josh (g33k)
#description
<!-- Some of these links within are just references to people I admire, fun topics, or messages. -->
- [Explorer](https://www.newtonproject.ox.ac.uk/) of our [universe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy). Through deep **thought**, [meditation](https://www.nccih.nih.gov/health/meditation-and-mindfulness-what-you-need-to-know), *creation*, learning, and sharing the knowledge gathered.
- Software Engineer with a knack for building from scratch, solving **unique** problems, and thinking *outside-the-box*.
- Forever consumer of knowledge. Innovator, critical thinker, and sometimes [Musician](https://soundcloud.com/g33kidd).
::

## This is my place.

Don't you ever just look up at the stars and wonder why we're here? What's our purpose? If so, that's probably a good thing. Curiosity sometimes gets the best of us. However, I truly believe in the power of free-thinking and the power of curiosity. No matter how painful our existence may be at times; it's worth wondering, exploring, and enjoying every last second of it. Every person has a journey and every day can be a new journey. I suggest that we &mdash; **The Human Race** &mdash; never stop questioning our existence and never stop looking for purpose. After all, it's an exciting universe we live in; don't you agree? As time passes by, I've struggled to maintain a digital archive of my thoughts &mdash; as I'm writing this, I think that ought to change one way or another.

Now, I created this space to speak my mind, share my knowledge/work/art and whatever else may be expressed by me. Some images on this site are not by myself, but may be attributed where I've done so. It's sometimes just nice to share things that are interesting. There is no one single subject that I am interested in; however I do spend a majority of my time studying Software Engineering, Web Development and anything in that space.

As far as I am concerned, there is no such thing as a [Thoughtcrime](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thoughtcrime). If there every was, I would fight with every last breath. Every last drop of blood in my body. Until my bones break apart from the sheer desire to express my own belifes, thoughts, and information that I have consumed.


<br />

----

## Open Source Projects

Over the past 10 years I have created, modified, and deleted projects. Some of which are still around today, don't exist anymore, and some I will not have created until tomorrow. Who knows? Here's a list of projects that I'm currently working on that are open source, regardless of if they're polished or not.

[**Bamboo**](https://github.com/g33kidd/bamboo) &mdash; Currently working Bamboo, an open-source web framework for the [Bun JS Runtime](https://bun.sh). Trying to think about web architecture differently, how it makes sense to me and discvoer something new. Because if nobody does, how does an industry progress and find new ways of doing things?

[**DiscorQL**](https://github.com/g33kidd/discorql) &mdash; GraphQL implementation of the Discord API. This project is quite outdated.

[**Twitch <-> Discord Relay Bot**](https://github.com/g33kidd/twitch-relay-bot) &mdash; This is just a message relay bot between Twitch and Discord. This project is outdated.

## Writing In Progress

Locally, I have a plethora of documents that I need to sort out in order to publish anything. Currently working towards creating a more streamlined system in order to publish documents quicker. However, here are a few subjects that I am currently writing and thinking about:

- Thoughts on The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
- Orbital Body Based Encryption
- Non-RNG Wealth Redistribution
- Federated Content Moderation
- Design for a Composable Analytics System
- Coincidences in a Simulated Reality
- Brain Re-wiring through Meditation
- Dichotomous Thinking
- Social Media for a Brain Computer Interface Connected Society
- **More on the horizon**

As I continue to publish, I'll be updating each item listed here with links and possibly adding new items. However, at some point these items will be replaced over time.

## Projects in Progress

I'll write about these once I'm finished with them.

- Reducing the attack surface of publicly accessible portals.
- Creating a new kind of social experience for humans.
- Building highly customizable user interfaces, while maintaining security.

# Default Images

These are some default images that came with the theme I'm using for this blog, I quite like them so I haven't decided to replace them with anything yet. I'll get around to it at some point.

::gallery
---
images:
  - /alpine-0.webp
  - /alpine-1.webp
  - /alpine-2.webp
---
::

::other
*Created using an [open source blog theme](https://github.com/nuxt-themes/alpine).*

##### To do

Keeping this list here as a means of keeping myself accountable for maintaining this website. Putting it here will keep me coming back and checking up on it. While at the same time considering any changes that I might want to make.

- [ ] Change out the logo from the default 'Alpine'.
::
